tidb-cloud: update the doc of migration from op to cloud (#19453)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migrate-from-op-tidb.md

        ![Update Filter](/media/tidb-cloud/normal_status_in_replication_task.png)

    - Verify the replication. Write a new record to the upstream cluster, and then check whether the record is replicated to the downstream TiDB Cloud cluster.

7. Set the same timezone for the upstream and downstream clusters. By default, TiDB Cloud will set the timezone to UTC. If the timezone is different between the upstream and downstream clusters, you need to set the same timezone for both clusters.

    - In the upstream cluster, run the following command to check the timezone:

        ```sql
        SELECT @@global.time_zone;
        ```

    - In the downstream cluster, run the following command to set the timezone:

        ```sql
        SET GLOBAL time_zone = '+08:00';
        ```

    - Check the timezone again to verify the setting.

        ```sql
        SELECT @@global.time_zone;
        ```

> 8. Backup the query bindings in upstream cluster and restore them in the downstream cluster. You can use the following query to backup the query bindings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Backup the [query bindings](/sql-plan-management.md) in upstream cluster and restore them in the downstream cluster. You can use the following query to backup the query bindings:
```

    ```sql

>     SELECT DISTINCT(CONCAT('CREATE GLOBAL BINDING for ', original_sql,' USING ', bind_sql,';')) from mysql.bind_info where status='enabled';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SELECT DISTINCT(CONCAT('CREATE GLOBAL BINDING for ', original_sql,' USING ', bind_sql,';')) FROM mysql.bind_info WHER status='enabled';
```

Author: Should be "WHERE"?

Reviewer: Yes, sorry for that

Author: Thanks for your review, @dveeden !

    ```

>     After you get the query bindings, you can run them in the downstream cluster to restore the query bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you don't get any output you might not be using query bindings, which means you can skip this step.

    After you get the query bindings, you can run them in the downstream cluster to restore the query bindings.
```

        ![Update Filter](/media/tidb-cloud/normal_status_in_replication_task.png)

    - Verify the replication. Write a new record to the upstream cluster, and then check whether the record is replicated to the downstream TiDB Cloud cluster.

> 7. Set the same timezone for the upstream and downstream clusters. By default, TiDB Cloud will set the timezone to UTC. If the timezone is different between the upstream and downstream clusters, you need to set the same timezone for both clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Set the same timezone for the upstream and downstream clusters. By default, TiDB Cloud sets the timezone to UTC. If the timezone is different between the upstream and downstream clusters, you need to set the same timezone for both clusters.
```

>     - In the upstream cluster, run the following command to check the timezone:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. In the upstream cluster, run the following command to check the timezone:
```

        ```sql
        SELECT @@global.time_zone;
        ```

>     - In the downstream cluster, run the following command to set the timezone:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. In the downstream cluster, run the following command to set the timezone:
```

        ```sql
        SET GLOBAL time_zone = '+08:00';
        ```

>     3. Check the timezone again to verify the setting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    3. Check the timezone again to verify the setting:
```

>     - Check the timezone again to verify the setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    3. Check the timezone again to verify the setting.
```

        ```sql
        SELECT @@global.time_zone;
        ```

> 8. Backup the [query bindings](/sql-plan-management.md) in upstream cluster and restore them in the downstream cluster. You can use the following query to backup the query bindings:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Back up the [query bindings](/sql-plan-management.md) in the upstream cluster and restore them in the downstream cluster. You can use the following query to back up the query bindings:
```

    ```sql

>     SELECT DISTINCT(CONCAT('CREATE GLOBAL BINDING for ', original_sql,' USING ', bind_sql,';')) FROM mysql.bind_info WHERE status='enabled';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    SELECT DISTINCT(CONCAT('CREATE GLOBAL BINDING FOR ', original_sql,' USING ', bind_sql,';')) FROM mysql.bind_info WHERE status='enabled';
```

    ```

>     If you don't get any output you might not be using query bindings, which means you can skip this step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you do not get any output, you might not be using query bindings. In this case, you can skip this step.
```

>     If you do not get any output, you might not be using query bindings. In this case, you can skip this step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    If you do not get any output, query bindings might not be used in the upstream cluster. In this case, you can skip this step.
```

>     After you get the query bindings, you can run them in the downstream cluster to restore the query bindings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    After you get the query bindings, run them in the downstream cluster to restore the query bindings.
```

> 9. Backup the user and privilege information in the upstream cluster and restore them in the downstream cluster. You can use the following script to backup the user and privilege information (Don't forget to replace the placeholders with the actual values):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Back up the user and privilege information in the upstream cluster and restore them in the downstream cluster. You can use the following script to back up the user and privilege information. Note that you need to replace the placeholders with the actual values.
```

>     ```shell

Reviewer: Maybe change `PSWD` to `MYSQL_PWD` as you then don't have to specify it on the command line. This might be easier and more secure.

```
dvaneeden@dve-carbon:~$ mysql -u root
ERROR 1045 (28000): Access denied for user 'root'@'localhost' (using password: NO)
dvaneeden@dve-carbon:~$ export MYSQL_PWD='secret'
dvaneeden@dve-carbon:~$ mysql -u root
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 426
Server version: 9.2.0 MySQL Community Server - GPL

Copyright (c) 2000, 2025, Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

mysql-9.2.0> 
```

https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.4/en/environment-variables.html

Reviewer: This is how I modified my test script:

```diff
--- script_orig.sh	2025-03-05 10:09:06.183204306 +0100
+++ script.sh	2025-03-05 10:12:15.160051982 +0100
@@ -1,9 +1,9 @@
 #!/bin/bash
-HOST='127.0.0.1'
-PORT='3306'
-USER='root'
-PSWD='secret'
-MYSQL="mysql -u${USER} -p${PSWD} -h${HOST} -P${PORT} --default-character-set=utf8mb4"
+export MYSQL_HOST='127.0.0.1'
+export MYSQL_TCP_PORT='3306'
+export MYSQL_USER='root'
+export MYSQL_PWD='secret'
+export MYSQL="mysql --default-character-set=utf8mb4 -u ${MYSQL_USER}"
 
 function backup_user_priv(){
     ret=0
```

Author: Addressed, PTAL~

    #!/bin/bash

    HOST={tidb_op_host}
    PORT={tidb_op_port}
    USER=root
    PSWD={root_password}
    MYSQL="mysql -u${USER} -p${PSWD} -h${HOST} -P${PORT} --default-character-set=utf8mb4"
    
    function backup_user_priv(){
        ret=0

>         sql="select concat(user,':',host,':',authentication_string) from mysql.user where user not in ('root')"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        sql="SELECT CONCAT(user,':',host,':',authentication_string) FROM mysql.user WHERE user NOT IN('root')"
```

        for usr in `$MYSQL -se "$sql"`;do
            u=`echo $usr | awk -F ":" '{print $1}'`
            h=`echo $usr | awk -F ":" '{print $2}'`
            p=`echo $usr | awk -F ":" '{print $3}'`
            echo "-- Grants for '${u}'@'${h}';"
            [[ ! -z "${p}" ]] && echo "CREATE USER IF NOT EXISTS '${u}'@'${h}' IDENTIFIED WITH 'mysql_native_password' AS '${p}' ;"

>             $MYSQL -se "show grants for '${u}'@'${h}';" | sed 's/$/;/g'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            $MYSQL -se "SHOW GRANTS FOR '${u}'@'${h}';" | sed 's/$/;/g'
```

            [ $? -ne 0 ] && ret=1 && break
        done
        return $ret
    }
    
    backup_user_priv
    ```
    

>     After you get the user and privilege information, you can run them in the downstream cluster to restore the user and privilege information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    After you get the user and privilege information, run them in the downstream cluster to restore the user and privilege information.
```

>     After you get the user and privilege information, run them in the downstream cluster to restore the user and privilege information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    After you get the user and privilege information, run the generated SQL statements in the downstream cluster to restore the user and privilege information.
```

Reviewer 3: Reason: The pronoun ‘them’ is unclear about its referent.
